## nature of code 0
These three implementations of a random walk algorithm illustrate different programming approaches applied to the same problem. I rewrote the simple program in a more functional style, which yielded yet another way to write it as an object oriented program.


### Traditional OOP Random Walk:
This version uses a classic object-oriented structure. It defines a Walker class that encapsulates the walker's position and behavior. The class has separate methods for moving (step) and displaying (show). Random movement is implemented using a switch statement based on a random number. The draw function calls step and show once per frame.

{% p5Container "natureofcode0_orig.js", "natureofcode0_orig" %}
{% injectCode "natureofcode0_orig.ts" %}

### Functional-Style Random Walk:
This implementation takes a more functional approach. It does not use a class structure, instead relying on functions and a single position variable. The step function combines both movement and drawing operations. It uses an array of direction vectors for movement choices. 

{% p5Container "natureofcode0_func.js", "natureofcode0_func" %}
{% injectCode "natureofcode0_func.ts" %}

### Refined OOP Random Walk:
This version maintains an object-oriented structure but incorporates some elements seen in the functional approach. The Walker class now includes a static array of direction vectors. The step method uses this array for movement, simplifying the code. It also moves the stroke color setting to the setup function.

{% p5Container "natureofcode0.js", "natureofcode0" %}
{% injectCode "natureofcode0.ts" %}